
Work credentials

Sudent: Denis Afanasev (denisa2@illinoise.edu)
Datasource: https://www.worldbank.org/en/research/brief/World-Panel-Income-Distribution
Datasource description: http://pubdocs.worldbank.org/pubdocs/publicdoc/2015/10/895211444154092188/Description-Lakner-Milanovic-database-2.pdf
Source code: https://github.com/denisafanasev/cs498DataVisualization
Web view: https://denisafanasev.github.io/cs498DataVisualization/


Messaging

In this narrative visualization, the main theme is to examine the relationship between changes in a country's population 
size and the difference in per capita income between the poorest and richest segments of the population. 
The message I want to convey is that, as we can see in the case of the study of changes in the population of each 
country and changes in income differentials, these changes are loosely related. 
Visualization provides an opportunity to examine the changes in both relative and absolute values of these indicators. 
Viewers can see and assess trends in these indicators. The main page (Scene 1) summarizes the current state of the 
country's population, the difference between GDP per capita between the richest and poorest people, and the change in 
income differences since 1988. Further, the user can examine in detail each country and the dynamics of these 
indicators in both absolute and relative values in Scene 2 and Scene 3.


Narrative Structure

My narrative visualization follows the drilldown structure. On the main page (scene 1), the user sees the overview 
of all the data and can then move on to either scene 2, which shows the absolute dynamics of the indicators, or scene 3, 
which shows the dynamics of changes in relative indicators, of his choice. In this way, users can explore the 
dynamics of any country of their choice.

    Scene 1:
    This slide shows a summary of all countries on the scoreplot graph.

    Axis X (Totpop) population in 2008
    Axis Y-axis (RRincMax) is the highest per capita GDP in 2008 for the richest segments of the population.

    At the intersection of these indicators is the country where the radius (RIncDiffP) - the relative change in 
    GDP in the country to the level of 1998 (over a period of 10 years)

    Below the graph there are 2 buttons that allow the user to switch to a detailed study of the dynamics 
    of the indicators for each country of his choice. To go to the graph, the user has to select a country and 
    click the corresponding button.

    Scene 2:
    This slide shows the visualization of absolute population size and the difference between GDP per capita 
    for the poorest and wealthiest segments of the population.
    
    The left (linear) chart shows the number of population depending on the year.
        
    The right (barchart) chart shows the levels of GDP per capita for the poorest and richest segments of 
    the population for each year of measurement of these indicators.


    Scene 3:
    This slide shows the relative size of the population and the difference between GDP per capita for the poorest 
    and wealthiest segments of the population.

    The graph (barchart) shows the level of change in GDP per capita for the poorest and wealthiest segments 
    of the population for each year of measurement and the level of change in population size.

    The graph illustrates the relationship between these indicators.


Visual Structure

For all scenes, this narrative visualization uses the same background color, the background color of the chart, 
the location of the scene (i.e. a single chart with subsequent descriptions), the alignment of charts and text 
for to provide a consistent visualization sequence. Scene names, axes and legends are given in all scenes, 
to help the audience understand the data. Slide numbers as well as back and forth buttons also are used to 
facilitate navigation between scenes. Annotations are also provided to Help the user to focus on important parts 
of the charts.

Scenes

My narrative visualization has three main scenes, including the opening scene and two drilldown scenes. 
They all use the same scene template. Starting and ending point of visualization is the main stage. The second 
and third scene are independent and the user chooses, 
to which one of them it is necessary to make the transition from the main stage. 
In other words, viewers can put forward a hypothesis (e.g., a change in the GDP per capita difference 
between the poorest and wealthiest segments of the population depend on the size of the population of a given country) 
on the main stage, which can then be tested on stage 2 or 3 at the user's choice.

Annotations

I used the d3 notation library created by Susie Lou to annotate on a template. 
I used this template because it is easy to implement, has a good abstract design and sufficient color 
contrast between the background and annotations. Important values necessary for studying the information are 
given in the diagrams in the form of annotations.

Parameters

The slide number (e.g., Scene 2, Scene 3, Country for detail, etc.) is a parameter, 
who control the fortune. Narrative visualization states include scene 1, scene 2, scene 3. 
The status and scene are defined by the numbers after the word "scene". For example, the "scene 3" parameter 
indicates that the state is the third scene. The "scene" parameter is displayed on scene 1, 2 and 3, the "country" 
parameter is displayed on scene 2 and 3.

Triggers

The slide number, the Back button, the Absolute Values Watch button and the Relative Values Watch button 
are triggers that link user actions to changes in the narrative visualization state. 
Buttons are displayed at the bottom of the page in the form of blue rectangles and white text, 
informing viewers about the possibility of moving back and forth between the main scenes, if any.